well howdy there internet people it's bo
again
you know every once in a while an idea
takes hold
among americans
and it's just so bad
the argument is so flawed that when it
hits my noggin
just no can't do it nae nae i say
no no no so today we're going to talk
about ubi
and one of the arguments that gets used
against it now if you don't know i'm not
actually a proponent of ubi of universal
basic income
but this argument is just that bad that
i feel like
i want to say something about it and the
reason it's bad
is not necessarily
what's being said it's that it's an
underlying theme
that hits a bunch of other policies as
well
the idea is that universal basic income
would disincentivize work that if people
are making a grand a month
they're just having it handed to them
twelve thousand dollars a year
well then they won't work see there's a
fundamental flaw
in this argument and it leads to a bunch
of bad thoughts bad things and bad
policies
so first we're going to get rid of that
argument
we're going to demonstrate that it's not
true and then
we're going to explain why it's such a
bad concept
why do people take on college debt
12 000 bucks a year that's a little less
the minimum wage
why do people take on college debt
people who go to college today are they
really seeking an education
or are they seeking credentialing so
they can get
a higher paying job doesn't make sense
why would they go through all that
trouble
to get a higher paying job because
twelve thousand dollars a year is enough
anything beyond that would
disincentivize them
what about those people who are working
making 36k a year
but they're really bucking for that
promotion
that makes sense either because that's
three times the amount
that should disincentivize them
that they they shouldn't want to do
anything else they're already making
three times more
than what it would take to make them not
want to work
what about trust fund kids they don't
work at all
but most of them still do they do
investments or they get a job
to make more money why they're certainly
making more than a thousand bucks a
month
we should just pay everybody in the
military a thousand dollars a month
everybody across the board
i mean that's all it takes right and
especially with them they got housing
cheap food health care recreation there
on post
i don't know i guess they have a job
that just has to be done
right it's funny because i think we just
all learned that a whole lot of minimum
wage jobs
are essential they have to be done
and that's where this argument gets
pointed to
it will disincentivize work for those
at the bottom for those making minimum
wage
thousand bucks a month
see i don't know are they somehow
different
do they have a different character are
they different kinds of people
do they not want more do they not
deserve more
see a thousand dollars a month that's
awfully close to minimum wage
so why would they why would they work
though if they could get it for free
see the fundamental argument here is
that they are different
they have a different character being
poor is a lack of cash
not a lack of character they want better
just like everybody else it's human
nature
it would not disincentivize work
it wouldn't not for anybody
i mean that that's not something that's
going to be widespread
so
the reason this argument gets made
is because we have to justify minimum
wage workers
making so little that's the reason the
argument gets made
we have to find some way to suggest that
they're different
because otherwise making just above the
poverty line
working 40 hours a week that seems
pretty bad
a society probably shouldn't allow that
and see this is where the idea comes in
that
well you know that's just for teens it's
not
a quote for you no business which
depends for its existence on paying less
than living wages
to its workers has any right to continue
in this country
by business i mean the whole of commerce
as well as the whole of industry by
workers i mean all workers
the white collar class as well as the
men and overalls
and by living wages i mean more than a
bear subsistence
level i mean the wages of a decent
living
sfdr the guy who enacted the minimum
wage
it was never supposed to be for teens
or for people retiring or
whatever argument you want to throw out
it was supposed
to provide a decent living
but see wages stagnated
and now they're so out of whack
what it would take to bring them into uh
where they should be
seems just seems just out there
nobody should get paid fifteen dollars
for flipping burgers
i only make twelve dollars an hour and
i'm an emt
i would suggest that
and will prove that the minimum wage
workers are being taken advantage of
and that so is the emt
but see what happens is the emt doesn't
notice it
because the emt has somebody below him
or her that's doing worse
so has somebody to look down on has
somebody to kick down
act and suggest that they're different
they have a different character
that's why i'm up here and they're down
there
they don't notice because you have that
image that idea
that somehow if they were handed 12
grand
well they would just sit at home because
they're lazy
but you wouldn't do that right bmt
wouldn't do that
the reason this has happened is because
wages are stagnant
if you compare the average wage
to productivity you'll see it there's
charts for this
tons of them you can compare it to
pretty much
anything any metric you want to use
you will see that wages are stagnant
meanwhile the large companies continue
to make more and more and more and more
the economics of it is there but let's
put this into something
that is more easily relatable
let's say somebody says hey you've got
two acres of corn
i'll harvest them and give you an acres
worth of the corn
okay deal that was the baseline
that's the decent living
what if you were to walk out to your
field later and find out that they
harvested four acres of corn
but only gave you an acre you would
probably want
another acres worth of corn
that's what this is that's an attempt
to get wages back to where they should
be if they were linked to productivity
or anything else really
and see here's the other part about it
because you still have that emt
if people are getting a thousand bucks a
month
that's almost poverty level so
there'd be a whole lot less people in
poverty which means there'd be less
people qualifying
for assistance because right now
as it stands not just are they taking
advantage of the emt because they're
paying the person
too little then once the company's done
taking advantage of them
the government comes along and takes
advantage of them for the company
because the taxes that come out instead
of being used to benefit society as a
whole
they get used to provide assistance
to people who are working who should be
making a decent living
so the emt ends up subsidizing
the wages of the minimum wage worker
also the companies can make more money
i it doesn't disincentivize work
that idea is based on the concept
that poor people are somehow
different that minimum wage workers
well they're lazy they deserve to be
there
they made bad choices that somehow
they're just different kind of people
they don't have the same makeup
as literally everybody else from a
college student
to the trust fund kid to the soldier
to the person working at the insurance
company bucking for a promotion
those minimum wage workers they're
different
that's where the idea leads that's why
it's a bad idea
because then you can justify the fact
that you have people working
40 hours a week living in poverty
getting assistance that you're paying
for
so a big company doesn't have to pay
them a living wage
when you make that argument when you
make the argument that wages don't need
to be raised
for the people at the very bottom what
you are saying
quite literally is that i'm okay with
being taken advantage of
and i'm okay with subsidizing their
assistance
also the big companies can make more
it is a horrible premise it is a
horrible idea
people didn't get to where they were at
simply because they made good choices
or made bad choices there's a lot of
factors that go into it
being poor is lack of cash
not a lack of character we need to stop
conflating the two
and we need to remember that those below
us on the socioeconomic ladder
those with less influence less power and
in this country money is power
they are never the source of our
problems
never kick down anyway
it's just a thought y'all have a good
day